1. Context
What determines the price of used cars?

The value of a car drops right from the moment
it is bought and the depreciation continues with each passing year.

In fact, in the first year itself, the value of a car decreases 
by 20 percent of its initial value.

The make and model of a car, total kilometers driven, overall 
condition of the vehicle and various other factors further affect 
the car’s resale value.

2.Problem Statement
The prices of new cars in the industry is fixed by the manufacturer 
with some additional costs incurred by the Government in the form of 
taxes. So, customers buying a new car can be assured of the money 
they invest to be worthy. But due to the increased price of new cars 
and the inability of customers to buy new cars due to the lack of funds, 
used cars sales are on a global increase (Pal, Arora and Palakurthy, 2018). 
There is a need for a used car price prediction system to effectively 
determine the worthiness of the car using a variety of features. Even 
though there are websites that offers this service, their prediction method 
may not be the best. Besides, different models and systems may contribute 
on predicting power for a used car’s actual market value. It is important 
to know their actual market value while both buying and selling.

3. Data Description
This dataset contains over 7000+ true value cars data across all major 
tier 1 and tier 2 cities in India which is ready to accept a different owner. 
The information includes car manufacturer, model, fuel type, year of manufacture 
to mention a few.

Content:

id: Unique ID for every car

car_name: Name of a car

yr_mfr: Car manufactured year

fuel_type: Type of fuel car runs on

kms_run: Number of kilometers run

body_type: Car body type. Ex: Sedan, hatchback etc.

transmission: Type of transmission. Ex: Manual, Automatic

variant: Car variant

make: Car manufacturing company

model: Car model name

is_hot: Is it a top selling car? Indicates the demand for a car.

car_availability: Car availability status

total_owners: How many owners have already owned it?

car_rating: How good is the car to buy?

fitness_certificate: Does the car have fitness certificate?

source: Method of selling a car

registered_city: City where the car is registered

registered_state: State where the car is registered

rto: Regional Transport Office where the car is registered

city: City where the car is being sold

times_viewed: Number of times people have shown interest for the car

assured_buy: Broker assured car

broker_quote: Price quoted for previous owner (in INR)

original_price: Original price of a car (in INR)

emi_starts_from: Opting for EMI? Monthly EMI for the car starts from! (in INR)

booking_down_pymnt: Decided to buy? Please pay the down payment (in INR)

ad_created_on: Listed date for selling a car

reserved: Car reserved status

warranty_avail: Warranty availability status

sale_price: Selling price of a car (in INR)'''